<div class="meta" description="Manage remote schemas with Hasura"
keywords="hasura, docs, remote schema">

</div>

# Remote Schemas

<div class="contents" backlinks="none" depth="1" local="">

Table of contents

</div>

## Introduction

Hasura gives you CRUD + realtime GraphQL APIs with authorization &
access control. However, in many cases, you will need to write APIs
(queries, mutations) that contain custom logic. For example,
implementing a payment API, or querying data that is not in your
database.

Hasura has the ability to merge remote GraphQL schemas and provide a
unified GraphQL API. Think of it like automated schema stitching. All
you need to do is build your own GraphQL service and then provide the
HTTP endpoint to Hasura. Your GraphQL service can be written in any
language or framework.

This is what Hasura running with "Remote schemas" looks like:

<div class="thumbnail no-shadow" width="900px"
alt="Architecture of Hasura with remote schemas">

/img/graphql/core/remote-schemas/remote-schema-arch.png

</div>

## Use cases

-   Custom business logic, like a payment API
-   Querying data that is not available in your database

You can handle these use cases by writing resolvers in a custom GraphQL
server and making Hasura merge this "remote schema" with the existing
auto-generated schema. You can also add multiple remote schemas. Think
of the merged schema as a union of top-level nodes from each of the
sub-schemas.

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

If you are looking for adding authorization & access control for your
app users to the GraphQL APIs that are auto-generated via Hasura, head
to `auth`

</div>

<div class="admonition dhc">

Health monitoring of remote schemas in Hasura Cloud

Hasura Cloud offers built-in API metrics with integrated health checks
and distributed tracing for your remote schemas. Read more at
`Distributed Tracing in Hasura Cloud <tracing>`.

</div>

## Learn more

<div class="toctree" maxdepth="1">

adding-schema remote-schema-relationships auth/index

</div>

<div class="admonition">

Additional Resources

Data Federation with Hasura - [Watch
Webinar](https://hasura.io/events/webinar/data-federation-hasura-graphql/?pg=docs&plcmt=body&cta=watch-webinar&tech=).

</div>
