<div class="meta" description="Project deployment regions"
keywords="hasura, cloud, docs, regions, project, project regions">

</div>

# Deployment regions

<div class="contents" backlinks="none" depth="2" local="">

Table of contents

</div>

## Introduction

You can deploy Hasura Cloud projects in one of the supported regions
(more regions are coming soon). A project's region of deployment can be
selected while creating the project and it can be changed later from the
project details.

## Selecting the region while creating a project

Click on the `New Project` button on the project-list page. You can
select the project's region of deployment from the `Select a region`
dropdown.

<div class="thumbnail" alt="select regions while project creation">

/img/graphql/cloud/projects/regions-while-creation.png

</div>

## Changing region of an existing project

Go the the project details by clicking on the settings icon on your
project card in the project list.

<div class="thumbnail" alt="select regions while project creation"
width="900px">

/img/graphql/cloud/getting-started/project-manage.png

</div>

The `Region` field displays the project's current region of deployment.
For switching the region, click on the edit icon in the `Region` field.

<div class="thumbnail" alt="select regions while project creation">

/img/graphql/cloud/projects/region-edit-before.png

</div>

Choose a region of your choice and hit `Save`.

<div class="thumbnail" alt="save regions change">

/img/graphql/cloud/projects/region-edit-after.png

</div>

There might be a short downtime while your project is being moved to a
different region. If your database allows connections only from specific
IP addresses, make sure you add the Hasura Cloud IP of this new region
to the list of allowed IP addresses.

<div class="thumbnail" alt="change region confirm box">

/img/graphql/cloud/projects/region-edit-hasura-cloud-ip.png

</div>

<div class="note">

<div class="title">

Note

</div>

Support for deploying a project in multiple regions is coming soon.

</div>

<div id="project_regions_v2_limitation">

<div class="admonition">

Temporary limitation for v2.0 projects

Due to an underlying architecture change, it is currently not possible
to change regions of already created `v2.0` projects. **Support for this
will be added in the very near future.**

In the meanwhile, as a workaround, you can "move" your project to a new
region by creating a new Hasura project in the region you wish and
connect it with your database with the same Hasura metadata as in the
previous project.

**Step 1: Export metadata from existing project**

See `exporting metadata <exporting_metadata>` to get a copy of the
current Hasura metadata on your project.

Do ensure no further changes are made to the Hasura metadata post this.

**Step 2: Create a v2.0 Cloud project in your region**

See `Step 1` of `creating projects <create_project>` to create a new
Hasura Cloud `v2.0` project in the region you wish.

**Step 3: Connect your database with the same name to the new project**

See `Step 2` of `creating projects <create_project>` to connect your
existing database to the new project. Please ensure you set the same
database name as in the current project.

**Step 4: Apply the exported metadata to the new project**

See `applying metadata <applying_metadata>` to apply the earlier
exported metadata to the new project.

Your GraphQL API should now be regenerated as in the earlier project.

</div>

</div>
